Now that we have all of our markup done,
we marked up our links,
we marked up the actual
semantics behind everything and
we've dropped in our SVGs,
it looks terrible that's great.
That is the very first
step to all of this,
now we can add more CSS in
order to make this pretty.
Now as I mentioned to you before,
this is eventually going to appear on
top of the common image and obviously,
you see everything is white up
here on the top and so forth.
That's great,
I don't have that common image
available to me here in the navigation.
So what I'm going to do here instead,
just for
the purposes of the work here that we're
doing, I'm going to put in another
body style right here inside of my navs so
I remember to delete it later.
And I'm just gonna say
background-color of black,
which we'll get rid of most things
that we were just looking at here.
We can also get rid of those borders, I
think we're pretty much done with those so
we can get rid of the borders on the nav,
on the h1, and on the header.
You can either delete those or
you can comment them out and
then with that in place, now we can start
to add some additional styles here.
So for my header h1, we,
You probably don't want this so big.
So I'm gonna say my font-size
is gonna be an h3 font-size.
And we can just use the variable
that we already have been using from
our previous variable stacks there.
So our font-size is the variable of h3,
then we're gonna say our font
weight is 300 and our margin is 0,
which we actually we put
in down here at the bottom.
I'll just combine those here,
we can get rid of this other style.
Okay, so for the svgs,
we can say header svg and
we can say a width of something
like 30 pixels is probably good and
then svgs don't have a coloured to them
the way that text works on the web.
So properties like color or background
color don't necessarily work with SVGs,
what we use instead with them is fill.
But we can still use our
variables from earlier, so white.
Ha, here they are,
they do, in fact, exist.
Meteor kind of looks like
an avocado [LAUGH] Once you see it,
you can't unseen it.
So these buttons and the SVGs are now,
well, like I said the reason we didn't
spend a whole lot of time on that
is because we knew that we were gonna
make other changes and as you can see,
sure enough things are not
lining up as we expected.
So we can make some changes
to that as well and
the way I'm going to do that is.
I'm going to say nav.button And
here I'm gonna change the padding on my
button it looks a little bit off here by
putting nav in front of my button I'm now
overriding the styles that I have earlier
in my document under just
the plain button class.
So now that the specifically the button
navigation we're gonna
change It's padding and
it's gonna be four numbers 0.6 rem,
0.4 rem, 0.4 rem, 0.4 rem.
So now comes the big question with this,
right?
What do those four numbers stand for?
Does anybody know?
>> Right and bottom.
>> Right, exactly,
there are some combination of
those particular dimensions.
So it is top, right,
bottom, left, okay?
And exactly, those of you who think
visually will say, clockwise, right?
From top, right, bottom, left,
from 12 to 9, right,
going around the clock.
Those of you who are not visible people
like me We say TR, BL [LAUGH], remember,
and stay out of trouble, okay?
Top right, bottom left either way,
that will help you remember what those
four numbers are and believe me after 20
years of coding CSS, every time I have
to write out top right, bottom left,
I'm going TR, BL in my head, okay?
That is how I keep it straight.
So either one of those mnemonics will
help you remember what those four numbers
are and what they are representing.
And then the last thing here that we
need to include In this, of course,
is that our variable,
Our button is actually already black,
I think somewhere along the way it
turns white, so let's add this.
Even though the text inside of it is
already black, let's just add this anyway.
We want the text inside of it to be black.
Let's add a hover state for
these svgs and for doing that,
we're going to say header, a hover, svg.
So in other words,
when we hover over the link,
the svg color is going to change and
that's going to be a fill of our green.
So when we roll our mouse over these,
they will turn green on hover and
eventually we're going to change these
links as well to be white obviously our
links are the wrong color.
So let's go back down to our nav a here
and we're gonna set our color to var white
There we go, so there's our white
links there my name is still not quite
what we want here and so we'll need
to add some styles for that as well.
So this will be header h1 a and
the color will be white, var white
And our text decoration none
How's that?
All right, so
we have one final addition to make to
our desktop version of this navbar and
I have added it here to my header svg.
You'll see that I added
a margin top of -0.1 rem, and
that pulls those icons up
just enough that they're now
in line with the resume button,
looks just a little bit better.
Remember margins can have
a negative value to them and
which in case moves them
in the opposite direction.
So margin top would normally
push things down on the page and
negative margin will pull them up.
You cannot have negative padding,
you only have negative margins, okay.
Something to remember there.
Okay, so we are actually done with this
CodePen, feel free to close it and
the next one we wanna move on to, If you
go back into your website for the course,
we are going to scroll down to where
it says tablet and mobile navigation.
And so we are going to click on
beginning CodePen to start with that.
And one of the things that you'll notice
as you are working through this particular
navbar obviously it looks
great when the screen is big.
That's exactly what we were looking for
a name on one side, all the navigation
on the other as I start to squash this up
well at some point they wrap on top of
each other, that's just normal flexbox
behavior that we were out of room.
So these are going to stack
that's the wrap part of row wrap.
Remember we put that in earlier, but
that's pretty much where these are gonna
stay as the screen gets smaller and
smaller and smaller, kind of sub optimal
at those smaller screen resolutions.
So the shorthand we usually use to talk
about this is called tablet and mobile.
And I like using those words just because
it gives you a visual of a device that
we might be talking about that would
use these types of dimensions.
But the truth of the matter is we're just
talking about big screens, medium screens,
and small screens.
So, you'll hear other people talk
about screen sizing in that way.
What is the right dimensions for
those screens, it depends.
Have you seen how many devices
are out there these days?
And every single one of them has
different dimensions for everything.
So, what I would recommend that you
do is figure out at what dimension,
things look good.
One of the helpful features the CodePen
has, if you haven't noticed it already,
look down at the very bottom of the screen
on the divider between the code and
the display while I move
the divider back and forth.
Do you see the Sort of white pill that
comes up down there and that is a rolling
number and it will tell you exactly how
wide the screen is at various dimensions.
That is a super handy way, I know that
I can get this close and at 770 pixels
around there, that's where it's going
to wrap onto another line, okay?
And maybe I don't want it to go all
the way this close before it wraps onto
another line.
Maybe I want a little bit of
space before it wraps, so
CodePen can help you determine
exactly where those points are.